Don't the rich tell you "Don't reveal this to them, Rob"?
Yes Yes Yes. "Don't tell them what you know. Keep them poor."
My father was a supporter of education.
I went home and asked him:
- Why don't we learn about money at school?
And he looked at me and said, "Because the government won't let us."
to teach this subject.
The government tells us what we can teach and what we can't.
The government tells us what we can teach and what we can't
I thought that was weird. And I said - But ...
Don't we go to school to learn about money?
He said, "No."
Your job is to find a job.
I said, "You're getting a job."
so you can make money.
He replied, "No!" You just have to find a job
And I answer - No, no, no, no ..
The purpose of the job, isn't it to make money?
He said, "You're right."
I said, "Then why don't they teach us how to make money, not how to work?"
He got angry with me and said:
"If you want to learn about money, why don't you ask your best friend's father."
about money?
And I asked, "Why should I ask him?"
He said, "Because it's Mike's father."
businessman.
And I asked: - And what are you?
He replied, "I am an employee."
I am a government employee.
And I said, "Oh ... What's the difference?"
He said, "The difference is that he's an entrepreneur."
obliged to know about the money. Or he is not an entrepreneur at all.
And the employee is not needed
to know nothing about money because
the government takes care of him, the company takes care of him.
I was just a kid. I was confused
But I followed my father's advice
I went to Mike's father's office and knocked on the door.
And I said, "Hey!" I'm here. 9 years old.
Teach me about money. And he said, "Get lost, kid."
But this is how the story of Rich Dad Poor Dad began.
Finally, because of my perseverance, my rich father began teaching me about money
however, under one condition.
And that condition was that he would never pay me money.
He said, "The moment you get paid, you'll start thinking like a worker."
This is the trap.
Businessmen work for free.
I was 9 years old then and my head was just splitting in half.
He said, "Never ask for my salary, kid." Do you understand ?
- All right. Understood.
Then he asked me, "Okay." Then how do I make money?
This is exactly what business people need to find out
- How to learn about money, I asked? Learn to play Monopoly, he said
I started working for him for free. He had hotels and restaurants in real life.
I cleaned, discarded butts, and performed the duties of a servant.
And when I grew up, I started doing office work and marketing
and accounting and I was an apprentice in general.
But I always worked for free.
And he taught me about money, but the way he taught me about money,
it was through Monopoly.
And one day I just got tired.
And I asked him, "Okay." When will you really teach me about money? He said, "What do you think we're doing?"
"Are we playing Monopoly?" He said, "No, no, no."
Is that what you think we're doing?
- We play Monopoly. "Is that what you think we're doing?"
I said, I don't know. He said, "I'm teaching you about money."
And then, it was like having a green house in Monopoly
And he said,
- There are many formulas for huge success with money.
There are thousands, but one of the best discovered is through the game of Monopoly. "
And it still is.
Four green houses.
A red hotel.
He said, "One of the best ways."
to be rich is like playing Monopoly in real life.
Four green houses. A red hotel.
- Is that all? - Yes, this is it.
And then he said, "Okay." What do you think I'm doing? - I do not know. I replied
And then he took me out, showed me his green houses.
And 10 years later, when I was 19 years old. and I was at school in New York
I returned to Hawaii. My rich dad had bought ...
... the largest piece of land located in the center of Waikiki Beach.
And when you go to Waikiki Beach even today, you will see the Hyatt Regency Hotel.
This was his hotel.
Just like in the game of Monopoly.
Acquired assets have become larger assets. He was just doing what it's called
accumulation because this property
it wasn't that big at the time. He had to buy the smaller ones
it wasn't that big at the time. He had to buy the smaller ones.
Because Waikiki was just a small muddy town.
That's why he bought a shop from one owner and a cafe from another owner
It took him a while, but he finally put this big piece of land together.
And then he and Hyatt
built this huge hotel.
And they sold it for $ 800,000,000
And that's the way I learned about money.
I've had financial disasters.
I've had people stab me in the back, but it's all for the best.
Because that's how you build yourself as a person. This is progress.
People who are afraid to make mistakes as they were taught in school.
They never grow up
Because growing up is a process.
There are good moments There are bad moments
There are wrong things to do. There are also the right actions.
There are ups There are downs
Most people want to be right all the time.
It can't be that way. This is not the reality.
I was not poor by the standards of others.
I was not poor, by the standards of others.
But I came from a poor-minded family.
If you understand what I mean
Because rich, poor and middle class ..
Poverty begins with limited thinking.
Poverty is passed on.
He studies in the family.
And the middle class learns in the family.
And the people who are just staying at home now,
who are suffering financially or worried about money,
or they are unhappy, they can make a lot of money, but they are still unhappy
because of what they do
they were most likely learned that way.
It's planted in their heads
Find a job and work hard
either you will never be rich, or the rich are evil ... whatever.
The education system will never teach you about money.
The education system is done
so that it can teach you to be an employee,
or a doctor or lawyer.
Specialist.
But not wealthy.
And what most people miss
are real business knowledge. Like keeping accounts
as debts, as fees
You need to know this, but you are not taught in school. They don't teach anyone.
And people ask me: How did your rich father learn this ...
... which the poor man with a doctorate in education failed to do
And the answer is very simple.
My rich father, the father of my best friend
his father died when he was 13 years old.
On his shoulders remained a family business, which was to continue at the age of 13.
He even had to leave school for that
which was a blessing.
There are blessings that ...
... sometimes they don't look like that
but it turns out they are
And then his teachers were
his accountants, lawyers,
his bankers, his real estate agents. He has this,
which I call "True Teachers." Not these fake teachers at school.
Most teachers in school
they have no moral principles. They study subjects,
which they themselves do not use.
I asked the teacher, "Okay, this is my third year of higher math."
They called it "The strength of materials"
I asked, "Will I ever use this?"
He replied, "No."
"Then why are you teaching us?"
"Because they pay me."
- Do you ever use it? - No.
That is why I say that in order to succeed in life ...
... one of the things you have to do is
to find a real teacher instead of a fake.
fake teachers are those who do not practice what they teach
And real teachers do what they teach every day
So my accountants, my lawyers
they do it every day of God. This is how I learned.
Because every day I deal with the problems in my business.
I have accountants and lawyers and bankers,
and all these speed dial people,
because I solve problems with my team.
"I see you're imparting this knowledge." - Yes
Are rich people uncomfortable? And do they tell you "Don't tell them this, Rob"?
Yes Yes Yes. Don't tell people what you know. Keep them poor.
but, unfortunately for the poor,
as in the bible, i'm not very religious,
but the poor will always be poor, because it all starts here
Is this fear mental?
He is in their words, and the words
become a reality.
When they say, "I can't afford it. I can't do this."
They fail. They become what they say
My poor father used to say, "What do you think?" That I'm made of money?
I can't afford that.
And my rich father would say, "That's why he's poor."
Poor people say, I can't afford it, I can't do that, I don't have time.
The poor people say, I can't afford it, I can't do that, I don't have time.
Because this is the way out.
This is a way out. It's easier to say "I can't afford it"
And what did you say, your rich father?
instead, "I can't afford it" - How can I afford it?
How can I do this? What will it cost me?
Or why do it?
He said, "Questions open the mind."
The allegations close it. And when you say "I can't afford it"
Your mind goes out. And what you say happens.
Rugby is a team sport, as is football
the rules are different. Others play golf.
They play alone.
Everybody is different.
My game №1, financially, is business.
№ 2 is real estate.
What I tell young people is, find your game.